add 2 troubleshooting guides (#13461)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/04-operation-guides/troubleshooting/01-deplyoment-fails-pending-pods.md

---
title: Local Kyma deployment fails with pending Pods
---

## Symptom

> Local Kyma deployment with k3d fails with one or more Pods in pending state.

Author: I agree

Describing the pod reveals an error message like:

`0/2 nodes are available: 2 node(s) had taint {node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure: }, that the pod didn't tolerate.`

## Cause

The underlying Docker environment ran out of resources (memory/cpu/disk). 
Thus, k3d marked all Kubernetes nodes with a taint "disk-pressure".

## Remedy

Verify the cause:

1. Find out which Pods are pending.
2. For the pending Pods, verify which error message you get by _describing_ the related deployment:

>    Run `kubectl -n istio-system describe deployment istiod` and `kubectl -n istio-system describe pod istiod-{POD_NAME}`.

Reviewer: Maybe make clear that this is just an example:

For instance, if the istiod Pod is pending, run ...

>    For example, if the Istiod Pod is pending, run `kubectl -n istio-system describe deployment istiod` and `kubectl -n istio-system describe pod istiod-{POD_NAME}`.

Author: thank you! Much better now!

>    For example, if the Istiod Pod is pending, run `kubectl -n istio-system describe deployment istiod` and `kubectl -n istio-system describe pod istiod-{POD_NAME}`.

Author: On whether to describe the deployment or the pod, @chrkl  can you advise?

>    For example, if the Istiod Pod is pending, run `kubectl -n istio-system describe deployment istiod` and `kubectl -n istio-system describe pod istiod-{POD_NAME}`.

Reviewer: Good point. The Deployment description should not contain any additional information in this case. Checking the Pod description is enough.

Fix the issue:

> 1. In the preference settings of your Docker UI, adjust the Docker resource assignment.

Reviewer: Do we have any recommendation about the required Docker resources for k3d that could be linked here?

Author: Uh. I don't think so. Who could provide such information? That could indeed be helpful :D

Author: solved with 8 GB suggestion

> 1. In the preference settings of your Docker UI, adjust the Docker resource assignment.

Author: I'd rather avoid click-level instructions if possible.

> 1. In the preference settings of your Docker UI, adjust the Docker resource assignment.

Reviewer 2: Sure, it's just the `preference settings` that stroke me off as redundant/duplication. I'd use either `preferences` or `settings`. 
Also, technically, everything that the user can interact with is a UI, so Docker UI does not necessarily mean Docker Desktop, it could also be via Terminal, that's why I used the precise name.

> 1. In the preference settings of your Docker UI, adjust the Docker resource assignment.

Author: Now I see. Thanks for following up!

How about:

```suggestion
1. In the preferences of your Docker Desktop, adjust the Docker resource assignment.
```

---
title: Local Kyma deployment fails with pending Pods
---

## Symptom

Local Kyma deployment with k3d fails with one or more Pods in state `Pending`.
Describing the Pod reveals such an error message:

```bash
0/2 nodes are available: 2 node(s) had taint {node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure: }, that the pod didn't tolerate.
```

## Cause

The underlying Docker environment ran out of resources (memory/CPU/disk). 
Thus, k3d marked all Kubernetes nodes with a taint `disk-pressure`.

## Remedy

Verify the cause:

1. Find out which Pods are pending:
   ```bash
   kubectl --all-namespaces get pods
   ```
2. For the pending Pods, verify which error message you get:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n {POD_NAMESPACE} describe pod {POD_NAME}
   ```

Fix the issue:

> 1. In the preference settings of your Docker UI, adjust the Docker resource assignment.

Author: Now I see. Thanks for following up!

How about:

```suggestion
1. In the preferences of your Docker Desktop, adjust the Docker resource assignment.
```

> 2. Check whether there are sufficient resources (memory/cpu/disk) on the device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Check whether there are sufficient resources (memory/CPU/disk) on the device.
```

> 3. Adjust the resources as needed. If you're not sure, try 8 GB for the evaluation profile, for example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Adjust the resources as needed. If you're not sure, try 8 GB for the evaluation profile.
```

Can we remove the `for example` here? I don't think it adds anything. We already have `try`, which expresses that it's not a value set in stone, but rather a trial-and-error method to adjust it to your environment. 

If we did want to have something there, I'd rather use `for starters, and increase if needed` or something like this.
